*|IF:FNAME|*Hi *|TITLE:FNAME|*,*|ELSE:|*Hello,*|END:IF|*

Kubernetes is gaining so much attention that there isn't a day that goes by without someone asking:

**"What is Kubernetes? Is it really a thing? Should I even care?"**

When friends and colleagues ask the question, you could say "a portable, extensible open-source platform for managing containerized workloads and services".

But that's missing the point.

And while there're plenty of resources to explain what Kubernetes is and how to use it, none of them takes the time to tell WHY you need Kubernetes in the first place.

None of the articles diving into the three main benefits of using it:

- **Cost reduction** by utilising resources more efficiently
- **Quicker time to market** when you can deploy and scale apps automatically
- **Vendor-neutral** — you can deploy Kubernetes in any cloud and expect the same behaviour

So I decided to fix this and wrote the missing introduction to Kubernetes and containers.

This is the article I wish I had when someone asked me _"What is Kubernetes?"._

[What is Kubernetes? And how you can save 50% on your cloud bill](https://learnk8s.io/blog/what-is-kubernetes "What is Kubernetes? And how you can save 50% on your cloud bill")

Please go ahead and read it!

_Once you're done, click on the reply button and let me know what you think._

Feel free to share it with your colleagues and friends; they'll finally understand why Kubernetes is here to stay!

— Dan

_P.S.:_ I'm speaking at KubeCon China later this year! If you wish to learn more about Kubernetes on embedded devices and the Internet of Things you should [listen to my talk](http://sched.co/FuJr)!