*|IF:FNAME|*Hi *|TITLE:FNAME|*,*|ELSE:|*Hey,*|END:IF|*

_I'm Dan from Learnk8s._

Today we talk about the Kubernetes Ingress — the component in charge of routing the traffic to your apps.

Here are a few interesting facts about the Ingress.

**☑️ FACT 1: it's the most misunderstood component of the cluster**

In the past, we noticed that teams were rolling out their nginx reverse proxy to route traffic to the cluster.

In other words, they were rewriting the Ingress controller from scratch.

**☑️ FACT 2: it's a pain to debug**

Some Ingress controllers direct traffic to Services (aws-alb-ingress-controller) while others (most) skip the Service and distribute the traffic directly to Pods.

How can you know whether the traffic is degraded due to a slow kube-proxy or due to the app itself?

**☑️ FACT 3: there are so many you can choose from**

Traefik, Contour, Ambassador, Kong, Gloo, nginx-ingress (in three different flavours), HAProxy, Voyager, Zalando skipper plus all the Ingress controllers offered by the Kubernetes managed services such as the AKS ingress controller, the AWS ALB Ingress controller and the GCP Ingress controller.

**☑️ FACT 4: annotations, annotations everywhere**

Every Ingress controller has a gazillion different annotations that are specific to that controller.

And even worse, they are not portable.

**❓How do you choose the right Ingress?**

**❓How do you monitor and debug it?**

**❓How do you make it portable?**

I collected a few resources that I found useful while I was researching how teams use Ingress controllers, and I'm sharing them with you now.

**🛠 1. The essential nginx-ingress kubectl plugin**

If you're using the nginx-ingress, there's a plugin for kubectl that makes it straightforward to inspect and debug issues with the nginx-ingress.

You can install the plugin with krew (the kubectl plugin manager) and check endpoints, backends, logs and more.

_You can find more info about the plugin on [the official project page](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/kubectl-plugin/)._

**♻️ 2. Automatic certs with GCP**

If you're using the GCP Ingress, you're in for a treat. Google automatically provisions TLS certificates for you.

_You can read the announcement [on the official docs](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/managed-certs)._

**🌅 3. Ingress has a brighter future ahead**

The Ingress manifest you see today will change drastically in the future.

There's an ever-growing number of annotations that are making the Ingress the least standardised component in Kubernetes.

There's a plan on making the Ingress resource more flexible.

_At the moment, the best resource to learn how that will work is this [video from KubeCon Barcelona 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ne9UJL6irXY)._

**💍 4. One spreadsheet to rule them all**

Whenever I want to evaluate an Ingress, I usually use this [handy spreadsheet from Kubedex](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/16bxRgpO1H_Bn-5xVZ1WrR_I-0A-GOI6egmhvqqLMOmg/edit?usp=sharing).

The spreadsheet doesn't address features such as:

- monitoring and logging
- traceability
- performance
- resource usage

but it's a valuable resource to help you get started.

**👉 5. What about you?**

But I'm also interested to know what Ingress controller you're using.

_Are you using the nginx-ingress controller because it is a safe choice?_

_Have you gone full cloud-native and decided to distribute the traffic with Traefik?_

_Have you settled on Istio because you combined the Ingress with a service mesh?_

Let me know! We're working on making it easier for devs and DevOps to select the right Ingress and your opinion matters.

**Hit the reply button and tell me your story!**

— Dan