Hey there!

Dan here.

**TL;DR:** _Learnk8s is releasing two new courses on Wednesday. In the first course you build your own Container Network Interface (CNI) in the other you design and build a service mesh from scratch._

**Has learning Kubernetes made it to your year's resolution list?**

I'm sure it has, but I bet you don't want to just _know_ Kubernetes.

_One thing is to be able to use Kubernetes._

**Another is to be an expert** and understand the architecture and how the different components interact with each other.

Take the Container Network Interface — for example.

You can choose from several Container Network Interfaces, and they come with different trade-offs.

You have used (_or heard of_) Calico, Cilium, the AWS-CNI, etc.

_But how do they **actually** work?_

_Are those binary a binary? Daemons running on the master node? Every node?_

_Not sure? Don't worry._

We crafted two new courses for the Learnk8s Academy.

**New course: build your own Container Network Interface (CNI)**

The module is called Advanced networking and — as the name suggests — it is not for the faint-hearted.

The module dives into how the networking is designed in a Kubernetes cluster.

From network interfaces to network namespaces, Container Network Interfaces, IP address management plugins (IPAM), and so on this module covers them all.

The course is a must if you run your own cluster, but it isn't available just yet.

The good news is... **you can have the course from Wednesday!**

We will be releasing a new bundle of courses that are focused on the Kubernetes core components, and the Advanced networking module is part of it.

But it doesn't end here.

**New course: build your own Service Mesh**

If you've heard of Istio or Linkerd, this course covers neither.

_Confused?_

You will build your own Service Mesh the Hard Way using a dynamic proxy called Envoy.

This course is designed to get you up to speed with Service meshes and how they work.

You will learn the inner workings of Istio, Linkerd and Kuma.

2020 just got a lot better for Kubernetes.

Speak to you on Wednesday!

— Dan