[THREAD] What's new in Kubernetes 1.18?

---

1. You can use the Kubernetes API Tokens as a general authentication mechanism. It will allow you to integrate services further like communication between clusters, simplifying setups by making external authentication services unnecessary (alpha)

---

2. You can configure how quickly the HPA can scale with policies (alpha)

3. There is a new Certificates API that enables automation of x509 credential provisioning (beta)

---

4. You can run a single scheduler with different profiles. A profile might be optimised for latency, other for resilience, etc. (alpha)

5. With topologySpreadConstraints, you can define rules to distribute your pods evenly across your multi-zone cluster (beta)

---

6. You can define a configurable default Even Pod Spreading rule across failure domains (beta)

7. In Taint Based Eviction, the taints are automatically added by the NodeController/kubelet (stable)

---

8. HugePages are a mechanism to reserve big blocks of memory with predefined sizes that are faster to access thanks to hardware optimizations. Pods are now allowed to request HugePages of different sizes (stable)

---

9. With PodOverhead feature gate enabled, Kubernetes will take into account this overhead when scheduling a pod. The Pod Overhead is calculated and fixed at admission time and it’s associated with the pod’s RuntimeClass (beta)

---

10. The node topology manager is a kubelet component that centralizes the coordination of hardware resource assignments (beta)

11. You can define a startupProbe that will hold off all of the other probes until the pod finishes its startup (beta)

---

12. The new EndpointSlice API will split endpoints into several Endpoint Slice resources (beta)

13. IPv6 support added (beta)

14. NodeLocal DNSCache improves Cluster DNS performance by running a dns caching agent on cluster nodes as a Daemonset (stable)

---

15. Ingress graduates to V1. The /ingress.class annotation has been replaced with the ingressClassName field and the IngressClass resource (beta)

16. The EndpointSlice API added a new AppProtocol field to allow application protocols to be specified for each port.

---

17. The APIPriorityAndFairness feature gate enables a new max-in-flight request handler in the apiserver. You can define different types of requests with FlowSchema objects and assign them resources with RequestPriority objects. (alpha)

---

18. client-go was refactored to standardise options and add context handling (stable)

19. API server dry-run mode lets you emulate a real API request and see if the request would have succeeded (admission controllers chain, validation, merge conflicts, etc.) (stable)

---

20. You can use the API Server Network Proxy to isolate the cluster API server in a separate control network rather than the cluster network (beta)

21. ContainerD is supported in Windows as a Container Runtime Interface (CRI) (alpha)

---

22. You can use RuntimeClass on Windows (alpha)

23. Support GMSA for Windows workloads (stable)

24. You can use the runAsUserName Windows specific property to define which user will run a container’s entrypoint (stable)

---

25. kubeadm join is available for Windows users with partial functionality (beta)

26. The new FSGroupChangePolicy will change the volume permissions if the top level directory does not match the expected fsGroup value (alpha)

---

27. A new immutable field has been added to Secrets and ConfigMaps. When set to true, any change done in the resource keys will be rejected (alpha)

28. You can pre-populating a disk for a virtual machine with an OS image, or enabling data backup and restore (alpha)

---

29. Non-attachable CSI volumes skip the attach phase (stable)

30. You can access a raw block device with volumeMode to block (stable)

31. The CSI out-of-tree storage driver may opt-in to receive info about Pod that requested a volume in NodePublish request (stable)

---

32. You can "clone" an existing persistent volume. A Clone results in a new, duplicate volume being provisioned from an existing volume (stable)

33. A new kubectl debug command has been added to extend debug capabilities (alpha)

---

34. Kubectl is about to move to a separate repository (stable)

35. Running conformance tests now skips beta features (beta)

36. kubectl diff will give you a preview of what changes kubectl apply will make on your cluster (stable)

---

37. Support Out-of-Tree vSphere Cloud Provider

That's it!

If you want to read the list in full, head over to @Sysdig! https://sysdig.com/blog/whats-new-in-kubernetes-1-18